---
title: Gemfast compared to other gem servers
author: Greg
categories: [marketing]
---

#### Sections in this article
{:.no_toc}
* TOC
{:toc}

In any serious production sceanrio, you should run your own gem server. 

That's because:

*  a gem can used as an attack vector to gain access to run artbitrary code in your environment
*  sometimes a gem owner will yank a gem your depend on

Luckily there are a few options available to you.

#### Geminabox

Geminabox is a very simple, self-hosted gem server. It is installed either as a gem or as a docker container. It requires ruby 2.3+ and that you have some knowledge of ruby to run it. That's because you'll be writing your own rack configuration file (`config.ru`) and implementing your own rack-compatible authentication system. Geminabox also supports mirroring gems from rubygems, and comes with a Dockerfile that you can use to build and manage your own Geminabox container image. Geminabox has not seen a release since June 2022.

Pros:
* Simple
* Basic UI

Cons:
* Roll your own authentication and authorization
* No RBAC
* No gem allow-lists
* Build and manage your own docker containers


#### Gemstash

Gemstash is another popular option for a self-hosted gem server. It has more features than Geminabox but is also more complex. Gemstash uses a SQL database (`postgres` or `mysql`) as well as a cache server (`memcached`). For any serious usage you'll likely end up running those on separate servers from Gemstash. Since it is distributed as a rubygem, you'll need to install and manage a version of ruby, no official docker image seems to exist. Gemstash also relies on the `gemstash` command for starting and stopping the server. If you want to use `systemd` to run the Gemstash server you will need to create your own `systemd` unit files.

Pros:
* Scalable
* Repo is maintained

Cons:
* No UI
* No gem allow-lists
* Need to install and manage an external cache and SQL database
* No official Dockerfile or docker image

#### Gemfast

Gemfast is a new type of self-hosted rubygems server written in Go. This means you won't need to worry about patching any versions of ruby or rubygems.Gemfast does not rely on an external database or caching server because those services are embedded right into the `gemfast` binary. It is distributed as either a Debian package or an offical docker image so you can install it how you like. Configuration is handled by a single file using HCL format (the same as all HashiCorp products) and it supports multiple authentication strategies including GitHub OAuth.

Pros:
* Install via Debian package or docker
* UI that supports uploading and downloading gems
* Does not require ruby, bundler or any other gems
* Does not require an external cache or SQL database
* Supports GitHub or Basic Authentication and RBAC

Cons:
* ELv2 license

#### Conclusion

With Gemfast we tried to strike a balance between simplicity and features that makese it a great choice. 

[Give Gemfast a try today!](https://github.com/gemfast/server/releases/latest/)